This directory contains a set of tests on predefined data records.  The
simplest way to run them is to issue 'make check' from either this
directory or the directory above this one.  When it passes a test, it
will print

Passed such-and-such test

or

All 40 queries match the expected results

In case of failure, it will indicate where to find the detailed logs
about the error.  Please review the error logs for clues to resolve the
problems.  To request for help, please email
<fastbit-users@hpcrdm.lbl.gov>.

A more extensive test option is also available by issuing 'make
more-check' or 'make full-check' from either this directory or the
directory above this one.  These options go through larger sets of tests
on a large data set and 'full-check' even runs through a few old
indexing options that have not been used by the developers for a while.


About the data: There are two CSV files named test0.csv and test1.csv.
They are converted into the binary format used by FastBit with readcsv
(compiled from readcsv.cpp).  Larger test data sets are simply
replicated from these two small data sets.

About the tests: There are two types of tests, the tests built into
ibis::part class (ibis::part::selfTest) and a set of queries defined in
scripts/query-count.list (parsed by scripts/match-count.pl).  All tests
are executed through the executable compiled from ibis.cpp (in directory
../examples).

By default, the test data files are created in a subdirectory named tmp
in this directory.  This location can be moved by selecting a different
value for TESTDIR.  Because the test scripts generate a few files with
the same names as those in this directory, NEVER sets TESTDIR to
the name of this directory!


----------
KNOWN PROBLEMS

-- The command 'make full-check' and 'make more-check' takes a very long
   time on cygwin compared to other systems.  If you have any
   suggestions on address this problem, please post it to
   <fastbit-users@hpcrdm.lbl.gov>.

-- This suite of tests rely on perl and other GNU tools.  You will need
   these tools in order to run the tests.  Suggestions for improving the
   portability of test scripts can be sent to
   <fastbit-users@hpcrdm.lbl.gov>.
